README.md, before:

# Chrona

An interactive historical timeline.
[Available online](https://terryt.dev/chrona/).

## Project Overview

The UI is largely coded in Typescript, using the [Vue](https://vuejs.org)
framework, with [Vite](https://vitejs.dev) as the build tool. Much of
the styling is done using [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com). Packages
are managed using [npm](https://www.npmjs.com) and [Node.js](https://nodejs.org).

On the server side, tree data is served and generated using Python, with
packages managed using [Pip](https://pypi.org/project/pip). Tree data is
stored using [Sqlite](https://www.sqlite.org).

## Files

### Project Level
-   **package.json**:       Contains npm project information, such as package dependencies
-   **package-lock.json**:  Auto-generated by npm. Used for replicable installations
-   **LICENCE.txt**:        This project's license (MIT)
### Client &amp; Server
-   **src**:                Contains most of the client-side code
-   **tests**:              Contains client-side unit tests
-   **index.html**:         Holds code for the main page, into which code from 'src' will be included
-   **public**:             Contains files to be copied unchanged in the client's production build
-   **backend**:            Contains code for the server, and for generating history data
### Configuration
-   **vite.config.js**:     For configuring Vite
-   **tailwind.config.js**: For configuring Tailwind
-   **postcss.config.js**:  For configuring Tailwind
-   **tsconfig.json**:      For configuring Typescript
-   **tsconfig.node.json**: For configuring Typescript
-   **.eslintrc.js**:       For configuring ESLint
### Other
-   **.gitignore**:         Lists files to be ignored if using Git
-   **DEPLOY.md**:          Instructions for deployment on an Apache server on Ubuntu.
-   **prebuild.sh**:        Bash script for automating some steps of deployment.

## Setup Instructions

Note: Running your own version of the client and server should be straightforward,
but generating the database takes a long time.
More details are in `backend/hist_data/README.md`.

### Client Side
1.  If you don't have npm or Node.js installed, you can download a Node installer from
    <https://nodejs.org/en/download>, which includes npm. This project was coded using version 16.
1.  In this directory, run the command `npm install`, which install packages listed in
    package.json, creating a `node_modules` directory to hold them.

### Server Side
1.  If you don't have Python 3 installed, see <https://www.python.org/downloads>.
    The package manager Pip is included.
1.  The database used by the server is generated using scripts in `backend/hist_data/`.
    See it's README for instructions. You'll likely need to install a few
    packages using Pip.
1.  To run the data server via `backend/server.py`, you'll need to install jsonpickle.
    This can be done using `python -m pip install jsonpickle`.

    If you want to keep the installed package separate from your system's packages,
    it's common practice to use [venv](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html).

### Running Chrona
1.  In `backend/`, run `./server.py`, which starts a basic HTTP server that provides
    history data on port 8000.
1.  Running `npm run dev` starts the dev server.
1.  Open a web browser, and navigate to <http://localhost:5713>.

## Deploying the Website
This is significantly dependent on the server platform. `DEPLOY.md` contains
instructions for deployment on an Apache server on an Ubuntu system.

## Licence

Chrona is licensed under the [MIT Licence](https://github.com/terry06890/chrona/blob/main/LICENCE.txt).

Commit message:

Use requirements.txt for backend dependencies

README.md, after:

# Chrona

An interactive historical timeline.
[Available online](https://terryt.dev/chrona/).

## Project Overview

The UI is largely coded in Typescript, using the [Vue](https://vuejs.org)
framework, with [Vite](https://vitejs.dev) as the build tool. Much of
the styling is done using [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com). Packages
are managed using [npm](https://www.npmjs.com) and [Node.js](https://nodejs.org).

On the server side, tree data is served and generated using Python, with
packages managed using [Pip](https://pypi.org/project/pip). Tree data is
stored using [Sqlite](https://www.sqlite.org).

## Files

### Project Level
-   **package.json**:       Contains npm project information, such as package dependencies
-   **package-lock.json**:  Auto-generated by npm. Used for replicable installations
-   **LICENCE.txt**:        This project's license (MIT)
### Client &amp; Server
-   **src**:                Contains most of the client-side code
-   **tests**:              Contains client-side unit tests
-   **index.html**:         Holds code for the main page, into which code from 'src' will be included
-   **public**:             Contains files to be copied unchanged in the client's production build
-   **backend**:            Contains code for the server, and for generating history data
### Configuration
-   **vite.config.js**:     For configuring Vite
-   **tailwind.config.js**: For configuring Tailwind
-   **postcss.config.js**:  For configuring Tailwind
-   **tsconfig.json**:      For configuring Typescript
-   **tsconfig.node.json**: For configuring Typescript
-   **.eslintrc.js**:       For configuring ESLint
### Other
-   **.gitignore**:         Lists files to be ignored if using Git
-   **DEPLOY.md**:          Instructions for deployment on an Apache server on Ubuntu.
-   **prebuild.sh**:        Bash script for automating some steps of deployment.

## Setup Instructions

Note: Running your own version of the client and server should be straightforward,
but generating the database takes a long time.
More details are in `backend/hist_data/README.md`.

### Client Side
1.  If you don't have npm or Node.js installed, you can download a Node installer from
    <https://nodejs.org/en/download>, which includes npm. This project was coded using version 16.
1.  In this directory, run the command `npm install`, which install packages listed in
    package.json, creating a `node_modules` directory to hold them.

### Server Side
1.  If you don't have Python 3 installed, see <https://www.python.org/downloads>.
    The package manager Pip is included.
1.  The database used by the server is generated using scripts in `backend/hist_data/`.
    See it's README for instructions. Package dependencies are listed in `backend/requirements.txt`.
    They can be installed using `pip install -r requirements.txt`.

    If you want to keep the installed package separate from your system's packages,
    it's common practice to use [venv](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html).

### Running Chrona
1.  In `backend/`, run `./server.py`, which starts a basic HTTP server that provides
    history data on port 8000.
1.  Running `npm run dev` starts the dev server.
1.  Open a web browser, and navigate to <http://localhost:5713>.

## Deploying the Website
This is significantly dependent on the server platform. `DEPLOY.md` contains
instructions for deployment on an Apache server on an Ubuntu system.

## Licence

Chrona is licensed under the [MIT Licence](https://github.com/terry06890/chrona/blob/main/LICENCE.txt).
